---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Three Unexpected Responsibilities that Hit After VC Funding
date: '2013-08-05 20:53:55'
tags: [strategy, funding]
category: 'startups'
---

The first year or two of a startup is so difficult that you'll cry yourself to sleep, wish (and feel) like dying, and wonder why on earth you're doing this. One of my co-founders, [Andrew](http://www.linkedin.com/in/denodster), reminded me of a scene in Pirates of Silicon Valley. Not sure how historically accurate this is, but to quote Woz, ["all of a sudden we're working harder than our fathers, who we laughed at for how hard they worked."](http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&v=47ehNQIfHGs#t=32s)

And the whole time, you keep **almost** running out of cash - your lifeblood. When you come to think of it, if you just had *more* cash, *more* people, and *more* time... everything would be better, right. So obviously, when you close your first round, it's going to be easier...


Not so fast. At the end of the day, your job is still to build a machine that delivers enough value to someone, that they pay you money for it (and more money than it cost you to deliver that value). Funding doesn't remove this responsibility. If anything, you trade a longer runway and more power against your competitors for increased responsibility to deliver on building that machine. Once you take the VC pill, you'll only be counted as an unquestionable success if you build a $100MM company (i.e. ~ $10MM in annual revenue) - or whatever equates to a 10x return. So when your "startup" goes from just you, your cofounder(s), a few thousand bucks in the bank, and maybe some freind/family/fools money to 6 or 7 figures cash, a few things change drastically.

There are some things that remain the same. You're still going to wake up in the morning, just like the rest of the human race, cook, eat, and drink beer/wine - your personal life will feel almost identical. But **everything** about your company will get taken up several notches. So far, I can boil the changes for Ginkgotree down to three things: Board, Bills, and Business.

**1. Board**

Before you have outside investors, no one really gives a crap about what happenes to your startup. Your parents were proud of you - even though they can't relate to what you do. Your friend dynamic changes a bit because you work insane hours and never hang out with anyone. But the fact of the matter is that no one really gave a whole, entire, complete crap about what came of your startup. It didn't affect anyone's job, ability to buy food, or pay the rent, and the most anyone had at stake was that maybe they would miss out on knowing someone who became well known. Your Board of directors are the first group of people who saw your company, the market you are disrupting, and had the experience and balls to put their LP's money where their mouth is. So you finally have someone outside yourself who is just as concerned about your startup's performance (ability to deliver scalable value, and generate revenue) as you.

This changes things. It's not possible, nor is it right for your investors to know what is going on every single day, minute, and second. That's your job - and it's also your job to weigh all of those day-to-day fires, storms, and wins, and summarize them for your investors. They don't need hourly cat scans, but they do need a pager on when your vitals change. This will take more time than you think it does. Good VCs have come up with excellent hacks to streamline this - as I've found Detroit Venture Partners has. For DVP, this comes in the form of pop-in-meetings, Google Forms hacks, and quick, weekly meetings. If I need to let [Ted](http://tedserbinski.com/) know something (good or bad), or if I need help with something, he's all ears. Otherwise, our communications are well defined and thoughtfully organized. Financial reportings take me 5 seconds, and that leaves quick weekly meetings to discuss the important stuff. Never-the-less, it's a real shock when it hits you that someone else cares just as much as you, if your startup, your baby, your all in shot at changing the world, succeeds or fails.

**2. Bills**

As with anything, when the stakes are risen, the cost of doing business rises proportianally. Two years ago, experiments for Ginkgotree cost nothing. I worked my network to get a phone call with someone, and I had a half hour chat. Then experiements cost a few hours of prep time to make screen shots that I could email... then they cost days/weeks of time to make dummy apps and website to hold conference calls and demos with. Fast forward a few more months, and the experiments started costing real money - because we started building a real product. After launching our product and getting yet more validation, Ginkgotree itself was one huge experiment that had made a lot of promises. Many eyes in the edtech world were watching (and still are). Then came the really big experiment: our first customer. **EVERYTHING** went into making sure the first 22 students that used Ginkgotree did so without a hitch. And then we magnified the size of that experiment by a few orders of magnitude and partnered with Blackboard - the largest non-publisher edtech corporation on the planet. The *only* way we could do that is if we closed funding. So somewhere along the way with singing with [Blackboard](http://www.blackboard.com), getting to know all the awesome people on their Business Development team, we started to close. Which, as it always does, takes way longer than you expect.

With that, we're at a stage where experiments cost us four to five figures. Our current experiment is to test how many of the thouands of schools that count on Blackboard every year to manage their learning, can we attract to Ginkgotree and Open Educational Resources. As exciting as it is, it's very surreal to go from paying $1k bills to paying bills 10, 20, or more times that. **Especially** when paying those bills bleeds you of equity - as it should. If it didn't bleed you of something, the struggle to survivie, and evolve into something better than the last generation of products wouldn't be there.

**3. Business**

You are a real, living, breathing business now. You may have been an LLC with a few desks, and some code to list as company assets before, but now you've got money in the bank, and promises you made to customers and partners you need to fulfill. For Ginkgotree, that meant that we needed to get cracking to fulfill our promises to Blackboard. I'll never forget the first meeting we had with their business development team after signing our partnership. We were still a month or more out from closing our funding, I had just signed the biggest contract I've ever signed in my life, and there we sat in Blackboard's big, intimidating, Washington, D.C. headquarters. Two of us (half our company at the time), and 7+ of them. It was at that moment that I realized Ginkgotree was bigger than myself... bigger than the four of us.

The *last* thing your investors will want you to do when you close is sit on your cash. They entrusted you with that money to do one thing: scale your business intelligently, and quickly. You need to make hires, grow the team with people that have substantial experience in your market, interns, etc.. For us, that meant finding someone to be our part-time CFO so that I could focus on business development, and not on keeping our financial records (which I have no experience with, outside of keep emailed receipts ina  folder in Gmail). It also meant for us to begin the search for someone to lead sales, someone else to work with Lida on marketing, etc. Growth is exciting - but it means you will have to quickly adapt to changing your role, again and again.

All of this can really be summed up with that you will have more **responsibility** thrust on you than you ever have before. But it's OK, take a breath... this is FREEKING EXCITING!!!

Now, go change the world. Move society **forward!!!**

