---
layout: post
title:  "I Just Beat the 1948 Rule"
date:   2012-07-11 16:38:00
comments: true
categories: life
tags: [italia]
---

Well, really my attorney Luigi Paiano did. For the benefit of those that are in the position I was in, I will detail the entire process...

#### My Story of Beating the 1948 Rule ####
This whole thing started about 18 months ago when I first discovered that I was ineligible for Italian citizenship for two reasons. First, my GGM married a US citizen before 1948, so she lost her Italian citizenship. Secondly, even if she had not married, she gave birth to my GF before 1948, so she would not have passed her citizenship to him.
Italian citizenship was very important to my wife and me. We are Internet entrepreneurs so we can work anywhere with an Internet connection, and we both wanted to move to Italy and leave the US behind in a few years. So I decided to not give up.

Further research lead me to a few possible solutions, the most promising of which was Luigi Paiano. We sent a few emails back and forth. I explained to him my best understanding of my lineage (I only had half of the required documents at the time), we had a Skype chat, and I was able to chat with two previous clients. This was fall of 2010. At the time he had won only 3 similar cases, and he told me there was a 90% chance of success. And the price tag would be 3200 euro plus court fees of about 500 euro. To us, the cost was a no brainier. We knew we were moving there no matter what, and having citizenship would make things so much easier. Plus, if we didn't do it, we would always wonder...

So despite the recommendations of many, I signed the contract and sent the first deposit in March of 2011 after my documents were in order. The upside of going through Luigi was that I needed much less for documents. I only needed birth and marriage certificates in the direct line, and the immigration certificate for my GGGF. From my understanding, most consulates require all death certificates, and birth certificates for brothers and sisters, aunts, uncles, etc. I didn't even need the marriage certificate of my GGGF. Additionally, there were a few errors I did not need to correct. I will upload my certificates after I get a chance to photoshop out the SSNs on the more recent ones.

My parents and wife and I visited Italy a few months later to meet up with family, and visit Luigi in Bologna. He is a very nice guy in person. He has a small office with a few other people next to a huge park. We met for about half an hour and mostly chatted about all the places we have traveled. He then explained how long the process would take, and a few other things that we already knew. We understood it would be two years, or more if the court decided to research my documents. Later that fall I received an email that my first court date would be January of 2012, and it would be a short session for the judge to review my documents. He would then set another court date 6 to 12 months later to actually make the decision.
After the court date Luigi emailed me that because he had won so many more cases (9 at this point), he was able to press the judge to agree to make the decision without a second (or third) court date. So now we were told to expect a decision sometime this July. In the meantime, Luigi won 8 or 9 more 1948 cases.

Yesterday (a day before my birthday) we received an email from Luigi with the decision from the court that they had recognized the Italian citizenship of my GGM, and thus, awarded citizenship to my family. I had to pay a few hundred euro in fees to the Italian government to file the decision with our consulate in Detroit, and to file our birth certificates in Positano. This obviously happened much, much faster than we expected. We still have to wait several more months for a date at the consulate.  But it will be nice knowing that we will not be going into the consulate to present documents on the hopes they will accept them. They will be acting on orders from the Italian government to give us our passports. As of yesterday, I am a dual U.S. and  Italian citizen. Happy Birthday!

I hope this story gives others that are in same position I was in hope. At this point. Luigi has won 20+ cases. I cannot speak of the chances of winning obviously, as I am not an Italian avvocato. However, the chances are certainly much, much better than when I wired him several thousand euro, and he had won only 3 cases. If anyone would like to speak to me about it, feel free to send me an email. I'd be happy to share more details, and answer any questions.

#### The Details of my Lineage ####

1. GGGF
Francesco Longobardi
B. Dec 1848
Positano, Italia
Immigrated to U.S. Sep 1893

2. GGM
Genevieve Longobardi
B. May 1889
Jackson, MI
Married Frank Hasbrouck Sep 1907

3. GF
Jack Hasbrouck
B. Apr 1921
Jackson, MI
Married Rita Thorn Aug 1947

4. Father
Nicholas Hasbrouck
B. Jan 1958
Jackson, MI
Married June Zieger Mar 1981

5. Me
Scott Hasbrouck
B. Jul 1987
Jackson, MI
Married Lida Dabney May 2010